---
layout: post
title:  Sweet Dreams
date:   2018-11-11
categories: wikipedia

type: code

song: "Down the Road – Stan Rogers"
songurl: https://www.youtube.com/embed/2gIEO-ON8QE

visible: true
---

There's no "new car smell" equivilant for new websites, and that's a bummer.

Instead, there's nothing in the air but cautious optimism. Sure, it's empty now– but oh boy! What it could be!

{% include chapter1.html %}1.
{% include chapter2.html %}What can it be!?
{% include chapter3.html %}

This is gonna be a harbor for my daydreams. Instead of losing morning thoughts to walking through doorways, I'd like to catch a few of em' and give them a home.

To be more particular I'll be catchin':
- Scribbles
- How-to's
- Fondu recipes
- Quick, quirky, and wordier thoughts
- Miscenallionus et cetera

Of course, I have a few other goals–

{% include chapter1.html %}2.
{% include chapter2.html %}Write More
{% include chapter3.html %}

{% include postimg.html imgsrc="posts/nic-cage.jpg" %}

While the readership of this webzone will be exclusive to wanderlust twitter folks & my parents, I work at newspaper where the same can't be said. There's ample opportunity to do my own research and writing, but I'd like to be more confident in writing in general.

You only get good at a skill by doing, and so this is me publicly egging myself to write more. (\*_This also is me giving you permission to shame me if you see this blog-flower wilt from neglect over the course of many months._\*)

{% include chapter1.html %}3.
{% include chapter2.html %}Own the Medium
{% include chapter3.html %}

This is a bonefide blog, but I'm still going the self-coded route. Medium, Wordpress, or what have ya seem like swell options for this, but I like having complete control over _everything_.

Instead of having to cross my fingers that various mapping libraries work with this, I can make it work. If I want a feature (such as {% include tooltips.html face="tooltips!" tip="Or the musicbox at the top of this post!" %}), I can make it.

This means each post will be more work, but hey, maybe it'll be worth it. Afterall, these are artisanal blog posts folks!!

{% include chapter1.html %}4. {% include chapter2.html %}"Legacy"{% include chapter3.html %}

In the summer of '02, I lost three would-be memoirs because I left them outside and it rained overnight. The ones taken inside didn't fare much better.

Instead of writings, I have a bunch of school notebooks. School notes were dutifully written in the body... but in the gutter and littered throughout are scribbles and records of myself & my buddies during those days.

Nowadays, I still look back fondly on a <a href="http://eightbears.tumblr.com/">lil' tumblr</a>, and <a href="http://dylanmoriarty.github.io/">old posts</a> from my main site. Here's to making a nice space for future endeavors.

{% include chapter1.html %}5.
{% include chapter2.html %}OK, ...but why naps?
{% include chapter3.html %}

..._also_... my professional email has been MoriartyMaps for a bit. I like the juxtaposition. A digital dream catcher for the dreamt doodles of a busy fella just trying to get some naps in.

Hope very much some use will come of it. If some folks get some enjoyment out of it tho, that's enough too.

Cheers,

<i>– D.M., out in Norfolk VA<br>
<span class="post-date">Oct.20th, 2018</span></i>
