---
layout: post
title:  Snow

date:   2020-11-25 00:0:01 +0100

type: art

twit-img: "https://moriartynaps.org/assets/graphics/posts/17-cake/twi-img.jpg"

soc-descrip: "A dream of a better world where the land was textured cake. Coastlines of frosting, sweets dressing the edges of the world, with sprinkles doing whatever the hell they want."
soc-url: "https://moriartynaps.org/cake/"
soc-type: "article"
soc-img: "https://moriartynaps.org/assets/graphics/posts/17-cake/soc-img.jpg"

song: ""
songurl: https://www.youtube.com/embed/a6t_uyg_pF8

visible: false
centerAlign: false

---

_Mother nature looks down
	and says 
		"Hey, sorry that it hurts to be outside right now._
		_Here._
		_Have some fluffy stuff to roll around in."_


{% include chapter1.html %}1.
{% include chapter2.html %}Frosted World
{% include chapter3.html %}

Anticipation for snow hits in different ways.

Some days you wake to a thin coat cast over the earth that lasts just the early hours. Fluff that turns to weeping by early afternoon. "Why bother", you reply, trudging through muddy grass.

There are flash flurries – a living snow-globe simulation. Despite the promise of heaps of snow, you watch as the snow soldiers parachute onto the ground and go out in a wet whimper.

It's always a good sign when it falls fast in the evening.

The following days, you may wake to a world transformed. From mundane parking lots spring Himalaya-worthy mountain ranges. The streets become canyons. The night tries but has to relent the usual darkness, settling for a dusky grey.

These are tales about those days. Why, to me, Winter is my favorite month.


2. Landcrafting

The first sign of a snow day was never the snow. It was the low grate of metal scraping across concrete – my mother outside shoveling the walkways. This may have been preceded by the ring of a bell, a plea for help from an ungrateful teen who just wanted to sleep in. I'd be lying if I said I jumped to my feet to help. I have atoned for this since, _hopefully_. 

[[ mom shoveling in the morning ]]

Shoveling is meditative. It's rout work, but with a clear beginning, progress, and end. Particularly on the heavy days, the air will have a serenity. You're often shoveling in the wee morning or the late evening when drivers are already scarce. Add onto that the hesitation to drive in the immediate aftermath and you have a city to yourself. And your shovel. And your neighbors shovels. And the occasional snow plow.

[[ techniques ]]

Your limitations with shoveling are your arm strength and _more importantly_ how much snow you can pile onto your instrument before it gives out.

The snow also matters a great deal. Freshly fallen snow is a tedious breeze to move around. Give it a mid-afternoon to collasce though and your dealing with the unforgiving heavy shit. And at the end of every driveway lies the dreaded nightmare, the plow slush mountain.

Techniques can mitigate your weaknesses, and the snows heft. Switching arms frequently can help cut down on stress there. You can also alternate between HOISTing and PLOWing. Plowing, or just pushing the snow into the nearby bank is less stressful, but leaves a lot of residue, leaves larger margins, and doesn't work well when the snow starts to cake.

There's many ways to tackle a driveway. Whether HOISTing or PLOWing, you know any area you shovel is going to leave a small trail behind. You also want to build in enough margins that if the snow piles back on in a day or two, you still have a driveway.

There's multiple ways to tackle the cutting. You can cut straight down the middle, leaving two even sections to chip away at. This is preferable when shoveling with others. Otherwise you can cut it down long on one side and deal with larger lifts or longer plows. Or do a 2/3 cut leaving yourself long ends to tackle while your mighty and short ends to use as recovery in between.

Conversation is hard while shoveling. You're both making loud noises as your shovels attack the pavement. Chance is good one of you is gonna go faster than the other. You silently decide who is tackling the slush monster and who is doing the sidewalks.

If it's not clear, you have _a lot of time to consider these things while shoveling_.

Reaching the bottom of the driveway should be a victory. It's not. It really is a pain in the ass; the slush. They meant well, and they did well. But now you have an extra foot of snow waiting the end of your work that's extra dense and dirty. A full shovel-ful easily weighs a baby worth. And this stuff is tightly packed. This ain't PLOWing snow. On a good snowfall, to make even a dent you'll have to cut away multiple HOISTs-worths.

If a plow drives by, you feel like you can catch their eye. They gaze sorrowfully, knowing full well the additional work they're giving you. You nod solemly, knowing it must be done to ensure the greater traffic safety, but you will still internally send them every curse. 

Arms tired and cold, this is where you may take a rest. Not with hot cocoa, but with a sit on a pile you've mounted. You look back on the progress you made, it does not ease this task.

You learn when you set out this is your life for the next hour. There is a driveway, and there is snow. And you're going to move it. Everything else in the world be damned, except, maybe the faint sounds of other humans who've likewise emerged, resigned to their own [TASKS? TRIBULATIONS? TRIALS?].

[[ gif of me shoveing ]]

3. Warmth

When the work is done, you're chilly. Depending on much you HOISTed, and how sloppy you were with it, you might pass a snowman yourself.

There is no euphoria higher than that of coming in from the snow. Winter gives us hardships, but we're living in the modern era. For every curse made in [COLD BREATH] a blessing is made when your still tingling fingers embrace around a cup of hot cocoa.

In high school, a friend's parent had an outdoor hot tub. On multiple occassions, we'd sit in it in the dead of Winter. Heads wet from a gentle snowfall, the head a perfect complement. To up the contrast, we'd also hop out of the top, wiggle in a snowbank, then hop back in.


[[ dc, people walking in the streets ]]

[[ sympathy for the frozen ]]

[[ warmth is caring ]]

4. Citywide Surrender

Even if they start with work, snow days are _the best_. Short of a federal holiday, I can't think of another event more benign that can occur that leads a whole city to throw their hands in the air and go: WE GOOD, STAY HOME.





