---
layout: post
title:  Gone

date:   2020-11-25 00:0:01 +0100

type: art
scripts: "D3 Waypoints"

twit-img: "https://moriartynaps.org/assets/graphics/posts/17-cake/twi-img.jpg"

soc-descrip: "A dream of a better world where the land was textured cake. Coastlines of frosting, sweets dressing the edges of the world, with sprinkles doing whatever the hell they want."
soc-url: "https://moriartynaps.org/cake/"
soc-type: "article"
soc-img: "https://moriartynaps.org/assets/graphics/posts/17-cake/soc-img.jpg"

song: ""
songurl: https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL1KbmvLItolTf4gdeqZVk6NpD0BW5yVU6

visible: true
centerAlign: true

---

{% include blog-bits/gone-part-one/gone-styles.html %}

Take a deep breath.

<div class="breath"></div>

Appreciate, for this moment, that intake has a place somewhere between your first and last. 

// When we enter, one piece of paper certificates this simple chart, and we exit with another piece of paper that marks your conclusion. 

Most gravestones contain this simple data viz.

[[ When were you born? ]]
1950 – ______

While your end is thankfully unknown for now, if we could count such things, that breath you just took sits somewhere. Precarious and finite, one more notch down the line.

This is an ode to that breathe. To you, now, as you are. To the you that is as you to read this, and the you that eventually won't be.

A cheers to that which is, now, that which was, those who were; those Gone.

-----------

Everything is aging, but the scales are off. 

[[Most of the cats around when you were growing up aren't around anymore.]] Cats only live an average of 16 human years. Statistically, _all_ cats that populated the world I was born into are no more. There may be one or two remaining, with the oldest known cat being a wizened 38, but as of writing the current oldest is only 29.

[[ cats visualization ]]

Dogs live on an even shorter scale, their average lifespan between 10 to 13 years. While it's not a fixed clock, it's safe to assume the dogs of 90's film and tv are now grandparents if not great great grandpups and grandmups.

[[ dogs ]]

More extreme are the critters who blip into existance for a mere week, do their business, and cast off into spider chow or the angry end of a fly swatter.

[ flies ]

So long as it's not _your_ pet it's the easiest thing in the world to ignore. There's consistently been an abundance of cute dogs all over. Right now there are countless fiesty pups out there, and at any given point in the future that'll still be true. While they grow up (way, waaaay too) fast, unless ya get to know a particular pup, the turnover for your scale likely went by without notice.

On the flip side, there are animals who exisit on an unfathomable scale to ours. Kittens are hand size for a few weeks, but Jonathan the Tortoise has been chilling on beachs since 1832.

[[tortise]]

I've never owned a pet, but I've lived with many. There were my childhood friend's cats: Maxine, a stoic, grumpy chub and her reluctant co-inhabitant the skittish Shady. There was my sisters cat, the incredibly shy Simon who after three days of cat-sitting finally came out from hiding and chilled for a bit. Bailey, an adopted stray who escaped the house the moment I let my guard down and whom I spent an hour trying to coerece back inside to eventual, hard won success.

All these kittens are lost to time, like meows in the rain.

But we overlapped for a pause. 

----------

In college, one of my favorite quips was that we could be as indulgent as we wanted, cause there's no way it'd top what David Bowie did to himself in the 60-80's, and that dude is still kicking. That line lost steam in 2016.

It started as a joke in middle school "I think I'll become a die-hard Bowie stan". Then I kept noticing he was a part of things I really enjoyed. Realizing he was the enthralling goblin king from my favorite childhood film (Labryinth), the original song-writer behind what became my favorite film later on (The Life Aquatic), and finally the creator of so many fun and interesting tunes.

[[ bowie // dylan chart ]]

I will never not be upset that I overlapped with Bowie for a whopping 26 years and never managed to catch him perform. Granted, he was retired from touring for ten of those years, but even then, could have run into one another on trains. Or something. There was time!

There's a similar frustration with my grandparents. I overlapped with Ruth Moriarty for 17 years. When I stayed with her, because I was a teen and not thinking too far ahead I learned you can't evaporate water a CD in the mirowave – instead getting details from her of her incredible life.

Ruth was born Superior, Wisconsin, 1921. The eldest of five children, she ... ... By the time she was 11, the population of the U.S. looked like this.

=========BIG-CHART==========

It's wild to think that many of the older people of the world she grew up in were veterans of the U.S. civil war. The 40-60 year old's that ran the world had seen the century turn and likely likewise been veterans of World War One. & the 20-30 year olds were trying to get their foothold in during the Great Depression.

At the age of 19, Ruth left her hometown of Superior Wisconsin to try things out in Milwuakee, Wisconsin's largest city. Then her mother died young, forcing her to return to take care of her siblings. 

Also around this time, World War Two was at it's onset. At 22, the U.S. entered the war, and Ruth was a literal Rosie the Riveter, working in Superior shipyards.

=====Let chart play=======

She contributed to the "Baby Boom" with my aunts and father, loved by many and ........









<!-- 
Where I curse myself for not having the wherewithal to go beyond Wierd Al before I was 14, I wonder a lot about who Ruth (and others) feel that way about. What the world looked like for them, who was around then.

 -->










I reckon a lot of nostalgia has it's roots in how downright annoying it is to grow up understanding things to be one set way, only for that to cycle out in a decade or so. 



Jimmy Stewart, Fred Rogers, Charles Schultz, Dusty Springfield, Audrey Hepburn










<div class="birth-selector">
  <div class='birth-selector_value'></div>
  <select type='select' class='birth-selector_select'></select>
</div>


<div class="chart"></div>

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>


Gone
- Hold those who've past nearer in imagination

The Inherited Earth (past)
- Giving thanks for all we've inherited.
- Imagine the folks who built what we have
  - Fridge contents //
    - Comics all that end in RIP gravestone
    - Keeping meat + eating flys --- rip
    - Potatoes
    - Honey

Just the Best Party (present)
- TAZ
- Chasing moments vs. places
  - Museums are off / unnatural way to interact w/ objects

Chasing Waterfalls (present becoming the past)
- Decay of the world
- Libraries
- Xanga, Flash, Space Jam, Yahoo Answers

Future Ghosts
Who/What/Where/Why will you haunt?
- 







To Do List
- Da Future
- Charts, extended...
- Betting on a future seems dumb
- Go back to population chart
- You have a to do list, you should do it.




----------------


1. Cycles – Overview, situation for everyone everytime (setting)
  - Animal gens that have passed since you were born
  - Timeline of who we lose

2. Inherited Earth – See the situation you were born into
  - Fridge contents //
    - Comics all that end in RIP gravestone
    - Keeping meat + eating flys --- rip
    - Potatoes
    - Honey


  - Buildings over time
    - Madison, fires
  - Sidewalks, schools




3. Just the Best Party || Temporary Autonomous Zones – Place your own moments in that timeline, appreciate the present
  - Summer camp


In Brooklyn for the past couple decades there lived a singer named Jack Terricloth. It still hurts to refer to him in the past tense, but he joined the Gone in 2020, just after his 50th birthday. He threw just the best party.

The leader of a punk cabaret band, The World Inferno Friendship Society, his songs often touched on a world long past. Joe Robinson, Jeffery Lee, they even did a whole concept album/stage show memoralizing the life of Peter Lorre. My personal favorite is a banger toasting the collapse of the Weimer Republik.

For someone 






4. Internet (the cliff) – See much more directly how the present becomes the past
  - 

5. Ghosts – See the legacies left behind, how you can leave some yourself
  - Pictures / memories
  - Music




- - - -

Halley's Comet

The last known veteran of World War One died in 2012, 

325,574 veterans of World War Two remain, the youngest whom is ninety years old. 

That world is gone, and we've inherited it. The transfer is complete and total.



1. Cycles

Everything born dies. Everyone who is here is some place on their clock. Everyone is somewhere on their clock. 

Cats live significantly shorter than us humans, so if you're like me and born in the 90s, nearly every cat alive at that point in time is gone.

-- Animal Cycle calculator --
Enter Birth year:

~ 1 generation of cats
~ 2 generation of dogs

It's easy to remember this while watching, say, 1940's Lassie films. But this generation cycling is also true of The Wizard of Oz. To watch it is to watch a generation of actors, directors, scene painters, etc. all who're Gone.

[[ TIMELINE OF LIFE EVENTS WE LOSE EACH DECADE ]]

- Start in 1939 curve. Have little black dots for the actors/their roles
+ When it came out in 1939, it was to a world that'd just seen the end of the first World War. Many of the actors were holdovers from silent films.


- ?????
+ A lot of those people are also Gone, as are their experiences. We're at a point where we've completely cycled through World War One vets... have nearly lost all World War Two folks. The Queen of England endures.


- Move to person's curve
+ You're here too. [[ move to their birth year ]]. It's easy to remember your youth as tied to certain fads. Perhaps [[ FAD 1 ]] or [[ FAD 2 ]]. But more than anything else it's the product of _these_ people. Those adults in [[ YEAR ]] who were dreaming up the things you'd come to love. 


- Highlight the diff between that and current age outlines.
+ A lot of those folks are now Gone. It's hard looking back to not kick yourself for not taking full advantage of that overlap period you once had. You had [[ YEARS ]] to see David Bowie live! Ugh, whatever were you doing instead!

+ A more common regret must be with gone grandparents and parents. It's hard to not kick yourself for being ten and not caring or thinking to ask grandparents about their world, and how they had experienced it. Not only to learn more about those worlds, but also about how you happened. 


This series is a tribute to the Gone. Give them a thought; a prayer, I suppose. We only get to live on as legacies and in the thoughts of others. 

Breathe a wisp of life into their faded fires.

-Dylan


========================================



You're here, and not alone. Take advantage of the time we're sharing and reach out to people.


{::nomarkdown}
<p class="beneathMap">
  <i>Around for now,</i><br>
  <i>-Dylan<br>
  <span class="post-date">December, 25th 2020</span></i>
</p>

<div class="notes">
  <p>Randy Yiep</p>
  <p></p>
  <p>Dedicated to
    <a href="">Joe and Ruth Moriarty</a>
    <a href="">Duwayne and Ann Detert</a>,
    <a href="">Don Atkins</a>,
    <a href="http://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/interactive/2012/02/17/world/middleeast/Anthony-Shadid-Remembrance.html" target="_blank">Anthony Shadid</a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://www.tonemadison.com/articles/remembering-ash-quinn-a-prolific-queer-punk-who-enriched-madisons-music-community" target="_blank">Ash Quinn</a>,
    <a href="">Anthony LaPorte</a>,
    <a target="_blank" href="https://www.henkeclarson.com/obituaries/Jake-A-Lumsden?obId=19425267">Jake Lumsden</a>,
    <a href="https://www.legacy.com/obituaries/name/jennifer-greenberg-obituary?pid=185138619">Jenny Greenberg</a>,
    <a href=""></a>,
    <p>I've been writing this for over two years, and</p>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/16/arts/music/jack-terricloth-dead.html">Jack Terricloth</a>,
    <a href="https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-country/john-prine-obit-253684/">John Prine</a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/tv/tv-news/trevor-moore-comedian-who-co-founded-sketch-troupe-the-whitest-kids-u-know-dies-at-41-1234994463/">Trevor Moore</a>
  </p>
</div>
{:/}




<br>



{% include blog-bits/gone-part-one/pops.html %}
{% include blog-bits/gone-part-one/gone-scripts.html %}
{% include blog-bits/gone-part-one/gone-breath-script.html %}