---
layout: post
title:  Sweet Dreams
date:   2018-5-12
categories: wikipedia

type: code

song: "Down the Road – Stan Rogers"
songurl: https://www.youtube.com/embed/2gIEO-ON8QE

visible: true
---

There's no "new car smell" equivilant for new websites, and that's a bummer.

Instead, there's nothing in the air but cautious optimism. Sure, it's empty now– but oh boy! What it could be!

{% include chapter1.html %}1.
{% include chapter2.html %}What can it be!?
{% include chapter3.html %}

This is a harbor for my  daydreams. Instead of losing morning thoughts to walking through doorways, I'd like to catch a few of em' and give them a home.

It will house those scribbles, how-to guides, book recommendations, tunes, etc. etc. Quick, quirky, and wordier thoughts than what would fit well on my main webzone.

Of course, I have a few other goals–

{% include chapter1.html %}2.
{% include chapter2.html %}Write More
{% include chapter3.html %}

{% include postimg.html imgsrc="posts/nic-cage.jpg" %}

While the readership of this webzone will be exclusive to wanderlust twitter folks & my parents, I work at newspaper where the same can't be said. There's ample opportunity to do my own research and writing, but I'd like to be more confident in writing in general.

You only get good at a skill by doing, and so this is me publicly egging myself to write more. (\*_This also is me giving you permission to shame me if you see this blog-flower wilt from neglect over the course of many months._\*)

{% include chapter1.html %}3.
{% include chapter2.html %}Own the Medium
{% include chapter3.html %}

Much like my main website, this'll be a site largely self-coded. Places like SquareSpace, Medium and such are probably great and easy tools for kicking up a blog quick and easy.

On the otherhand, by making this myself I know how the sausage is getting made. I can also do more fun things, like having big ol' maps displayed, or {% include tooltips.html face="such as adding hover effects to text" tip="wee woo wee woo" %}.



{% include chapter1.html %}4.
{% include chapter2.html %}OK, ...but why naps?
{% include chapter3.html %}

...well... _also_... my professional email has been MoriartyMaps for a bit. I like the juxtaposition. A digital dream catcher for the dreamt doodles of a busy napping fella.

Hope ya like it too.

Cheers,

<i>– D.M., out in Norfolk VA<br>
<span class="post-date">Oct.20th, 2018</span></i>
